Arbitrum cross chain example (#4)
solidity-labs-io/fps-example-repo: src/proposals/arbitrum/README.md

If the target is an L1 contract, the proposal follows the standard OpenZeppelin Timelock path. For L2 proposals, identified by the target being a Retryable Ticket Magic address, a call to the L1 inbox generates the L2 ticket. Once it is bridged to L2, anyone can execute the ticket.

## Proposal Overview

As detailed in the [Arbitrum Governance Documentation](https://github.com/ArbitrumFoundation/governance/blob/main/docs), proposal are executed through pre-deployed Governance Action Contracts (GACs). Arbitrum has various GACs deployed for different actions, which can be found [here](https://github.com/ArbitrumFoundation/governance/tree/main/src/gov-action-contracts).

For Transparent Upgradeable Proxy Contracts managed by the Proxy Admin, the GAC must perform a call to the proxy admin, passing the proxy address and the new implementation address.

## Current Proposal Creation Process

Based on the Arbitrum governance documentation, the proposal creation process is as follows:

1. Create the GAC.

> 2. (Optional) Create unit tests for the GAC.

Reviewer: 3. (Optional) Create integration tests for the GAC.

Author: they use unit on the docs https://github.com/ArbitrumFoundation/governance/blob/main/docs/creating-a-proposal.md

3. Deploy the GAC to the respective network.

> 4. Create the proposal calldata by running a script passing the p[rovider, chain , GAC address and the json destination path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create the proposal calldata by running a script passing the provider, chain , GAC address and the json destination path.
```

5. Run simulation on the seatbelt repo. A PR with manual configuration is required.
6. Submit the proposal to the Governor.

## Proposal Creation Examples Using FPS

We have developed an [ArbitrumProposal.sol](./ArbitrumProposal.sol) contract

> that extends the FPS GovernorOZProposal to showcase the FPS capabilities. FPS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that extends the FPS GovernorOZProposal to showcase this tool's capabilities. FPS
```

    generation part of the proposal cycle cannot be simulated because it is an
    off-chain process carried out in Golang. Therefore, it is necessary to mock
    the active outbox on the Arbitrum Bridge to return the L2 Timelock on the
    `l2ToL1Sender` function. Additionally, Foundry does not support interactions
    with precompiled contracts, so the ArbSys contract must also be mocked.

-   `validateActions`: FPS internal function that is automatically called after
    the build function (more information about the build function is provided
    below). Arbitrum proposals should only contain a single action - the call to
    the ArbSys precompiled contract. Therefore, the 'validateActions' function is
    overridden to ensure that only one action is present.
-   `getScheduleTimelockCalldata`: function used to generate the calldata
    for the schedule function of the Timelock on Ethereum.

-   `getProposalActions`: function used to generate the actions for the
    proposal. In this case, it generates a single action to call the ArbSys
    precompiled contract. This is a utility function that is used by other
    functions like `simulate` and GovernorOzProposal `getCalldata`.

> -   `simulate`: this function is used to simulate the proposal lifecycle. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   `simulate`: this function is used to simulate the proposal lifecycle from scheduling to execution. The
```

-   `build`: function used to build the final proposal actions. Foundry is
    leveraged to record the actions, so plain Solidity code is used for building
    the actions.
-   `validate`: function called after simulation to ensure that the proposal
    is valid. This function checks the proposal's state after the simulation and
    ensures that the actions built in the `build` function apply the expected
    changes.
-   `getCalldata`: function used to generate the calldata for submitting the
    proposal. It's not necessary to override this function, as it's already
    implemented in the GovernorOzProposal contract.

When running a proposal through the `forge script`, FPS calls all the functions described above in the following order: `deploy`, `build`, `simulate`, `validate`, and `getCalldata` to ensure the proposal is valid and can be submitted to the Governor. The calldata is printed to the console, and the contracts deployed in the `deploy` function can be broadcasted to the network if needed.

Integration test suites can be integrated with proposal lifecycle simulation to
ensure the protocol remains safe and functional after the proposal is executed.

## Overview

> The FPS streamlines the proposal creation process by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
FPS streamlines the proposal creation process by
```

or

```suggestion
The Forge Proposal Simulator streamlines the proposal creation process by
```

eliminating the need for manual testing configuration and calldata crafting. The
proposal is created in a declarative manner using Solidity. Calldata is
programmatically generated and can be easily retrieved. Prior to on-chain
submission, each proposal undergoes testing against the Arbitrum Integration
Test Suite in a mainnet forked environment to ensure it functions as intended

> and is safe to execute. CI can be used to streamline the process even more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test Suite in a mainnet forked environment to ensure it functions as intended.
CI can be used to streamline the process even more by outputting the calldata
generated from a proposal onto the pull request itself, adding yet another layer
of checks that the calldata was properly crafted.
```

Additionally, this framework allows testing not only of
governance proposals but also of their associated deployment scripts. After the
full lifecycle simulation and testing, the proposal can be submitted to the
Governor with the code assurance that the proposal is valid and safe to

> execute. Using FPS the steps 3, 4 and 5 of the current Arbitrum proposal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
full lifecycle simulation and testing, the proposal can be submitted to the
Governor with increased confidence given the higher level of testing and lower amount of human input. Using FPS, steps 3, 4 and 5 of the current Arbitrum proposal
```

## Proposal Overview

As detailed in the [Arbitrum Governance Documentation](https://github.com/ArbitrumFoundation/governance/blob/main/docs), proposal are executed through pre-deployed Governance Action Contracts (GACs). Arbitrum has various GACs deployed for different actions, which can be found [here](https://github.com/ArbitrumFoundation/governance/tree/main/src/gov-action-contracts).

For Transparent Upgradeable Proxy Contracts managed by the Proxy Admin, the GAC must perform a call to the proxy admin, passing the proxy address and the new implementation address.

## Current Proposal Creation Process

## Proposal Creation Examples Using FPS

We have developed an [ArbitrumProposal.sol](./ArbitrumProposal.sol) contract
that extends the FPS GovernorOZProposal to showcase the FPS capabilities. FPS
allows the creation of declarative proposals that undergo not only code review
but also integration tests simulating the entire proposal lifecycle. This

> includes L2 submission, L1 settlement, and execution on L1 if is the case, or on L2 if the target is an L2 contract. FPS streamlines the process by eliminating the need for manual testing and calldata crafting, handling all complexities. Prior to on-chain submission, each proposal undergoes testing against the Arbitrum Integration Test in a forked mainnet environment to ensure it functions as intended and is safe to execute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
includes L2 submission, L1 settlement, and execution on L1 if is the case, or on L2 if the target is an L2 contract. FPS streamlines the process by eliminating the need for manual testing and calldata crafting. Calldata is programmatically generated and then run. Prior to on-chain submission, each proposal undergoes testing against the Arbitrum Integration Test Suite in a mainnet forked environment to ensure it functions as intended and is safe to execute. Additionally, this framework allows testing not only of governance proposals but of their associated deployment scripts.
```
